jBMM by Samneurohack
samneurohack @ gmail com
http://www.tmplab.org/wiki/index.php/Brain_Computer_Interface

Source code of "Basic Mind Music", the musical part of a tmpbci/La paillasse installation at Macval (museum of contemporary art in France) on May 22nd 2011. High Gamma Brainwaves values are converted to sound spectrum thanks to a generative Pure Data Patch. 

jBMM is alpha state, working correctly but definately not bulletproof : follow the instructions. Next versions won't need PureData and will be simplier to work with.

REQUIREMENTS
INSTALL
USAGE
DISPLAYED MESSAGES



REQUIREMENTS

Rebol language (around 1 Mo) and ThinkGearconnector, MacOS or Windows.

INSTALL

Install Rebol view 2.7.x, *note that rebol 3 is not supported* :
http://www.rebol.com/download-view.html

OS X: you may want to copy rebol in your PATH :

cd youreboldownloadirectory
sudo cp rebol /usr/local/bin/

Install Thinkgear Connector program from Mindset Developper Tools :
http://store.neurosky.com/collections/development

The Mindset headset must be paired via bluetooth utility. The correct Mindset bluetooth serial port must be configured in Thinkgear connector (usually in OS X: /dev/tty.Mindset-DevB).


USAGE 

To improve control capabilties : do not move and the frontal electrode should be one finger width above left eyebrow.

OS X: 	
		switch on and wear Mindset 
		start Thinkgear connector (TGC)
		The headset should connect to TGC. If not : check headset or TGC parameters : usually /dev/tty.MindSet-DevB as port.
		Double click Startup Icon
		Double Click jBMM Icon, assuming rebol is in the PATH. Otherwise the terminal command is yourreboldirectory/rebol jbmm.r
		
		
Windows:
		switch on and wear Mindset
		start Thinkgear connector (TGC)
		connect TGC to headset
		Doubleclick on jbmm.r
		
Initializing: 
	    When the pure data patch is correctly loaded, click on highGam checkbox : to be validated. 
	    On jBMM UI click on pDATA to initiate the link with the Pure Data patch.
	    
Run:
	    Start and Stop are obvious on jBMM User Interface.
	    The user interface has a built in display line, that guide through the calibration process.
	    VirtualLED is shown on top right and switch Green or Red according to the last 5 seconds average of High gamma wave value (high level mental task).
	    The switching value can be changed : VirtualLED lvl. This value can be saved as preferences, using save button.
	


DISPLAYED MESSAGES

		"Connected. Improve signal to calibrate" : One of 4 the electrodes is not correctly contacting skin -> move the headset / remove hairs on hears ...
		"Calibrated" : all is fine, EEG data are processed.
		"Send Data ON" : sending data to Pure Data patch is switched ON
		"Send Data OFF" : sending data to Pure Data patch is switched OFF
		"WRONG SIGNALS" : EEG datas are not correct, is the headset correctly wear ?
		"TGC connexion error" : ThinkGear Connector provides buggy values, quit and restart Thinkgear Connector.


